# Project Title: Fire Guard
## Project Category: Develop a new product
### Names: Advitya Chhabra (20768416), Shehryar Assad (20769393), Shahbaz Momi (20757960), Tyler Pinto (20762174), Hussain Abdi (20718058), Rafit Jamil (20785154)
 
We were personally affected by the wildfires in BC this summer and sought to create a product that could diagnose fires at an early stage and put them out before they worsen. To do this, we created FireGuard, a hardware-software solution that detects fires and alerts local communities, government authorities and firefighters to help fight forest fires early. FireGuard creates a safer environment for their citizens by minimizing the hefty financial and environmental damage associated with forest fires.
A major obstacle that comes with FireGuard is reliability and maintenance. FireGuard would require thousands of sensors spread across acres of land communicating with each other every few seconds. In the case of a technical issue such as a sensor failing, an on-site technician would have to travel to the affected area as soon as possible to fix the issue. 
Our objective is to provide stakeholders with reliable data that allows them to identify forest fires as early as possible.
We envision the solution as an ad-hoc mesh network of devices that contain environmental sensors. Some examples of sensors that these devices would have are CO2, total volatile organic compounds, humidity, temperature and light intensity. Individually, these sensors would be able to provide information about a specific location but as a mesh network we would get a better understanding of how the fire is growing.
The primary reason that this is better than existing solutions is because it is simple to deploy and cost effective. Furthermore, it’s scalable because all someone has to do is add more sensor units to an existing network. It would also have an easy-to-use, intuitive UI for stakeholders to view and assess sensor data.
Overall, our project uses mesh network technology to deploy sensors that monitor and alert stakeholders, allowing them to diagnose and mitigate forest fires as early as possible.
